---
date: 2023-02-01T14:56:43.833Z
in-reply-to: https://ericwbailey.website/published/modern-health-frameworks-performance-and-harm/
published: false
visibility: public
mp-syndicate-to:
  - https://indieweb.social/@niels
---
As a front-end developer working on a similar type of web application in the mental health care space, Eric Bailey's article about performance of modern front-end frameworks rings true. 
    
I have to admit, as I assume a lot of other developers are in the same boat: I wasn't involved in setting up the architecture at my company. I'm currently working with a front-end framework that was picked by (non-front-end) developers who choose what aligned best with their coding practices and was similar to what they worked with before. 
    
Do we over-rely on client-side JavaScript? Perhaps we do (but not as bad as Eric's example, since we do important stuff server side as well), and I would love to be able to change this in the future by moving more towards native web API's. But the hardest thing here is to convince management and the original architects it's worth pursuing. With a small product team we have a lot of other projects that need attention and take up precious time. Refactoring our relatively young design system might not get a high priority status (or any status) in the next few years.
    
I'm interested in solutions and ideas on how to tackle this problem as an individual developer. We are knees deep into our client-side JavaScript framework, written in TypeScript. It's way too complex in my opinion, but works fine and is well-engineered. But I would love to make it a lot less complex and move more towards native web solutions. I just have no idea how to exactly do this.
